What's up, Life in the English family? In this episode, I'm
going to tell you a quick story that might help you solve
difficult problems and learn new skills more effectively.
Back
in 2020 when most of us were locked inside and scared of the
virus, one of my friends had convinced me to try and learn
JavaScript. And for those of you that don't know, JavaScript
is a programming language used to create things like
websites, mobile apps and games, amongst other things. But
anyway, during the first few weeks of learning web
development, I was fascinated - reading, understanding, and
writing code to communicate with the computer and make it do
whatever I want; it seemed like magic to me. I just love the
fact that you could write codes to build whatever you want
on the internet. The same way you can use hammers and
screwdrivers and power drills to build things in the
physical world. The limit is quite literally, your
imagination. But after a month or two of learning the
fundamentals and working on very basic projects, things
started to get unbelievably difficult. Functions,
parameters, callbacks, promises, loops, arrays, methods, all
of these bits of information that served very specific
purposes, and they needed to be chained together in order to
create a fully functional site or application. Lots of math,
confusing tutorials, and documentation. I found myself going
down rabbit hole after rabbit hole of information until I
got overwhelmed by it all and decided that programming just
wasn't for me which was unfortunate because I genuinely
found it interesting and wanted to get better at it. What's
cool is even though I had given up on learning web
development, the knowledge I had gained from that experience
ended up helping me in ways you couldn't imagine. It's the
reason I was able to build my current website and make it
function the way it does. And also because of two fantastic
young gentleman named Victor and Abner, shout-out to y'all,
man, y'all are fucking amazing, and I am forever in your
debt! But let me get back to my story, because I really
think it could help you to learn difficult skills in a more
productive and sustainable way. So fast forward to June
22...or June 2022, that's what I meant to say, I'm back
to the basics of web development. HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
And you know what's interesting? Revisiting the basics of a
programming language after two years of not using it feels
the same as revisiting the basics of a spoken language after
two years of not speaking it. You can understand a few
things here and there, and a lot of words are familiar to
you. You start using the language again, and even though you
don't remember everything, you're able to relearn the basics
very quickly, typically within a week. And since you've got
that familiarity, you can master the fundamentals and move
on to more complex subjects much more quickly. So you're
starting over, but you're not starting from zero. And I
don't know why, but that feels good. It's like I've been
here before; I made my mistakes; I learned my lessons; and
now I get the chance to try again with a fresh mind backed
by the memories from my last experience. I know I'm gonna
learn this skill if I just keep chipping away at it,
aggressively, yet patiently. And what I mean is going hard,
giving it everything you've got every single day, but also
knowing that you can't do more than that. So once you put in
your work for the day, you should just shut everything down,
review what you've learned, and revisit everything the next
day. Because you can't build a city in a week, if you know
what I mean. So my advice to you is to take the same
approach when learning any new skill, be it communicating in
English or learning to paint, it does not matter. First of
all, you've got to have the right mindset. Try not to think
in terms of days and weeks and instead think in terms of
months and years, because that way you can track your
progress in a more realistic way and be patient with
yourself. You're simply not going to become great at
something in three months. I don't give a fuck what anyone
says. Even if you're naturally gifted, you'll still have to
practice and improve just like everyone else if you wanna be
the best that you can possibly be. And finally, spend the
first few months constantly learning everything you can
about the fundamentals of the skill. Play around with it.
Don't take it too seriously. Experiment. Make mistakes. Get
feedback. Challenge yourself. All that! And eventually,
you're gonna get to a point where things start to get too
difficult and you might consider quitting. And whenever you
reach that point, simply take a break. A long break. Don't
even look at the subject for a week or two, or in my case, a
fucking year or two. Then come back to your studies with a
rejuvenated mind that's had the time to digest all of that
new and interesting information. I know I talk a lot about
studying and practicing your English every single day until
you can speak like a native. But we're all different and we
all learn in different ways. And sometimes the best way to
learn a new skill that seems unlearnable is to stop trying
to force it, walk away from it for a while, and come back to
it once you've forgotten how much it makes you cry.